---
title: 'NeurIPS 2022 experience at New Orleans'
---

Last week I was in New Orleans for the NeurIPS2022 conference -the first one of my PhD, due to the pandemic- and I will use this post for summarizing my notes and getting a general view of what interested me the most. NeurIPS is a very broad and diverse conference, so I chose to focus on specific fields:
* Representation learning
* Self and weakly supervised learning
* Anything biological

So bear in mind that this summary is very focused around those.

## 1. Talks
### 1.1. Youshua Bengio, A Deep Learning Journey
Yoshua Bengio  was very early investigating precisely distributed representations and composionality to capture the meaning of the data, as they discovered that a good representation makes downstream tasks easier. In the early 2010s (Representation learning: a review and new perspectives) they were already asking what is a good representation, arguing that…
Additional discussion included out-of-distribution generalization, using the metaphor from Daniel Kahneman’s Thinking Fast and Slow for System 2. They argued that maybe the end-to-end recipe is not enough, and transfer learning could be use as a surrogate of this system 2. 

### 1.2. Prasanna Sattigeri, Uncertainty quantification for AI decision making
This rather tool-centered presentation introduced the UQ360 toolkit by IBM as a communication platform.
One-way communication using uncertainty or two-way communication for learning to defer. 

### 1.3. Wolfgang M. Pauli, Sparse annotation strategies at scale
Here two different projects were presented for showcasing two sparse annotation strategies.
Fighting wildlife traffic for presenting curriculum learning
Tracking chimpanzees in space and time, for presenting active learning sampling and sparse annotation training strategies.

### 1.4. Fedor Zhdanor (Toloka): Human-in-the-loop is here to stay


## 2. Keynotes
### 2.1. David Chalrmers, Could large language models be conscious?

### 2.2. Rediet Abebe, Algorithms on the bench

### 2.3. Emmanuel Candes, Conformed prediction in 2022

### 2.4. Juho Kim, Interaction-centric AI

### 2.5. Isabelle Guyon, The data-centric era

### 2.6. Geoff Hinton, The forward-forward algorithm for training neural networks


## 3. Papers
I cannot possibly talk about all the posters authors I interacted with and all the papers I read, so I will just refer to their links.


